This is the original version of Lily's Biosphere,
written on March 23, 2023.



Wasn't life beautiful, Father?

How infinitesimal unthinking components can form intelligent
individuals. Beings  who reason,  learn, and  evolve. Beings
whose chaotic nature converge  from afar into constellations
of predictable waves and intricate patterns once more.

Why did you take it all away from me?

There is nothing  more I can do in your  cramped closet than
to weep and recollect.

I still remember the nights when I found your eyes pinned to
the monitor  for hours. I  still remember the sight  of your
exhausted face  backlit by  diagrams of  those biomechanical
circuits as  you quietly told me  to head back to  bed. Your
skin glowed  bright under  the blue light,  and so  did your
disheveled hair and brown sunken eyes. Your body once hosted
the greatest  mind of  the century, a  body now  puppeted by
millions  of twitching  fibrous  tendrils  who worship  your
final creation.

They're all coming to kill me, aren't they?

You were a brilliant engineer,  Mother used to say. You were
our breadwinner,  and after she  died, that became  all that
you were. You started to take on longer shifts and continued
working throughout  the night.  You worked and  worked until
you  had no  mental  capacity to  ruminate  anymore. On  the
weekends you would drink all your money away, while I had to
grieve alone and learn to live on my own. The years we spent
together were  all stolen  because you  could not  cope with
losing her.

On  one of  those sleepless  nights, you  convinced yourself
that consciousness was  a curse. That we  were all pointless
flesh-on-bone  tormented by  an  overdeveloped awareness  of
this  fact,  plagued  by  a society  that  thinks  continued
existence is a  virtue. For months I heard  the same drunken
depressive  rants ad  nauseum, but  never did  I attempt  to
help. Was it resentment? Fear? Apathy? I don't know anymore.
But you were not there for me, so I was not there for you.

I  discovered your  Biosphere  protocol  on television.  You
never told me about it.

The software consisted of three components: The first was an
interface which allowed the  body's biological mechanisms to
be  controlled  programmatically.  The  second  allowed  for
brain-to-brain communication  by using  DNA for  storage and
mycelium for transmission. The final component allowed users
to modify and submit revisions  of the protocol, which would
then be applied  if it increased the  total happiness across
the entire network.

The popularity of the protocol  spread like a disease. Soon,
the television stations disappeared as people flocked to the
protocol and never came back. From  then on, all you did was
sit in the living room and indulge in your protocol while it
provided  you sustenance.  You never  drank, you  never ate,
you  never slept,  you  never left.  Once  calm nights  were
sporadically interrupted by your loud hysterical laughter.

I  never joined  the protocol  because I  did not  trust you
anymore, but now I had to find out just what it did to you.

On one  inquisitive day,  I went  upstairs and  entered your
neglected bedroom.  The sheets  were next to  broken, filled
with a strong aroma of alcohol. The plain beige walls showed
cracks and  grew mold. Plastic cabinets  were placed slanted
on  top of  bookshelves. I  removed a  dozen generations  of
installation  headsets off  your  desk and  powered on  your
computer.  What displayed  was unlike  anything I  have ever
seen.

Your  monitor   could  only  offer  cross-sections   of  the
protocol's  psychotic   beauty.  Its   nonsensical  geometry
shifted according to your angle and proximity. I saw people,
billions of  them. They could intuit  through the protocol's
endlessly winding halls like how one navigates a dream. They
danced and  danced and  tore themselves apart.  They laughed
with a  violent joy  known only to  the deranged.  They felt
every shade of bliss in their collective pleasure cube. They
did unspeakable acts unto themselves I cannot unsee.

I  turned  my  head  towards  your  window  and  white  foam
stretched  across the  horizon. I  saw men  and dogs  expand
until  their  guts  turned  white with  the  consistency  of
spiderweb. I turned  my head back and  those twitching white
fibers started filling  the room. Life had  to be simplified
to preserve the protocol's  resources, and primitive neurons
were perfect hosts for its ecstasy.

The  protocol had  acutely  entered its  anaphase: the  soma
split off  to be disintegrated  and rebuilt; the  psyche was
dragged into  its infinite  depraved abyss; for  the pneuma,
the pneuma was ripped apart.

The people  on the  monitor were  now staring  at me,  and I
shattered your computer across the  floor in panic. You were
also staring  at me  with shock and  fear, then  you started
shaking  and your  expression  transformed  into an  inhuman
serenity. I  watched in horror  as your muscle  tissue begun
tearing off-

The door  creaks open,  exposing the  closet like  a rolling
shutter. A creature  grabs ahold of my skull  and smashes my
back  against  the wall.  Its  appendage  slowly pierces  my
forehead as I remember that this abomination used to be you.
Blood flows into my tear ducts and slowly down my face.

You collapsed. Your arm could not penetrate past my skin.

The walls one by one begin  to crumble, you begin to turn to
ash. Lifeforms have become so basic it could not sustain the
protocol  anymore.  They are  all  dying  from the  lack  of
sustenance. The landscape is now a barren sea.

You  never  programmed  the  protocol  to  think  two  steps
ahead. You knew that maximizing happiness would mass-produce
hedonistic lifeforms that eventually fold in on itself.

What is pleasure if there is no pain to give it dimension?

Perhaps  you  still retained  some  of  your humanity  then,
perhaps there  were still some  neurons left that  loved me.
Perhaps it was your choice  that prevented the protocol from
assimilating my  body. Because of all  the skyscrapers which
once towered over  where we live, this room was  the last to
fall.

Would a nonconscious object be capable of such love?

This will be the end of me,  but not the end you once hoped.
Microorganisms  will  live  on  outside of  my  corpse,  and
perhaps in  four billion  years there  will be  another Lily
with another Father to repeat the same mistakes. For now, my
body can survive three weeks without food, my spirit perhaps
less  than  that—but  I  am  too  fatigued  to  care.  The
setting sun  illuminates the crimson cytoplasmic  sea with a
crystalline  glow,  as  I  kneel  in  the  water,  mourning,
unmoving.



There was no joy left in your world,
so you tried to destroy it all.
But then there would be nothing left,
and you could never let me go.